From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2009) In computer graphics, graphics software or image editing software is a program or collection of programs that enable a person to manipulate visual images on a computer. Computer graphics can be classified into two distinct categories: raster graphics and vector graphics. Many graphics programs focus exclusively on either vector or raster graphics, but there are a few that combine them in interesting ways. It is simple to convert from vector graphics to raster graphics, but going the other way is harder. Some software attempts to do this. In addition to static graphics, there are animation and video editing software. Most graphics programs have the ability to import and export one or more graphics file formats. It also can export files to one or more files. Computer graphics also can be used by other editing software such as Adobe Photoshop, Pizap, Microsoft Publisher, Picasa and etc. Other software that can be used is animation software, video editor software such as Windows Movie Maker, etc. The use of a swatch is a palette of active colours that are selected and rearranged by the preference of the user. A swatch may be used in a program or be part of the universal palette on an operating system. It is used to change the colour of a text or image and in video editing. Vector graphics animation can be described as a series of mathematical transformations that are applied in sequence to one or more shapes in a scene. Raster graphics animation works in a similar fashion to film-based animation, where a series of still images produces the illusion of continuous movement. History[edit] This section requires expansion. (June 2010) SuperPaint (1973) was one of the earliest graphics software applications. Fauve Matisse (later Macromedia xRes) was a pioneering program of the early 1990s, notably introducing layers in customer software.[1] Currently Adobe Photoshop is one of the most used and best-known graphics programs in the Americas, having displaced more custom hardware solutions in the early 1990s, but was initially subject to various litigation. CorelDraw holds a stronger user base in Europe than Adobe.[citation needed] GIMP is a popular open source alternative to Adobe Photoshop. See also[edit] Comparison of raster graphics editors Comparison of vector graphics editors Graphics hardware List of raster graphics editors List of vector graphics editors List of 3D computer graphics software Graphic art software Image conversion Photoshop Raster graphics editor Vector graphics editor References[edit] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Image editing programs. ^ Macromedia Matisse, Reign of Toads Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Graphics_software&oldid=636748705" Categories: Graphics software Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2009 All articles needing additional references Articles to be expanded from June 2010 All articles to be expanded All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from January 2014 Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata