From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search "Modeller" redirects here. It is not to be confused with MODELLER. 3D computer graphics Fundamentals Modeling Scanning Rendering Printing Software Primary uses 3D models Computer-aided design Graphic design Video games Visual effects Visualization Virtual engineering Virtual reality Virtual cinematography Related topics Computer-generated imagery (CGI) Animation (computer skeletal) 3D display Wireframe model Texture mapping Motion capture Crowd simulation Global illumination Volume rendering v t e 3D computer graphics software produces computer-generated imagery (CGI) through 3D modeling and 3D rendering or produces 3D models for analytic, scientific and industrial purposes. Contents 1 Classification 1.1 Modeling 1.2 Rendering 1.3 Computer-aided design 2 Complementary tools 3 See also 4 References 5 External links Classification[edit] Modeling[edit] Main article: 3D modeling software 3D modeling software is a class of 3D computer graphics software used to produce 3D models. Individual programs of this class are called modeling applications or modelers. 3D modelers allow users to create and alter models via their 3D mesh. Users can add, subtract, stretch and otherwise change the mesh to their desire. Models can be viewed from a variety of angles, usually simultaneously. Models can be rotated and the view can be zoomed in and out. 3D modelers can export their models to files, which can then be imported into other applications as long as the metadata are compatible. Many modelers allow importers and exporters to be plugged-in, so they can read and write data in the native formats of other applications. Most 3D modelers contain a number of related features, such as ray tracers and other rendering alternatives and texture mapping facilities. Some also contain features that support or allow animation of models. Some may be able to generate full-motion video of a series of rendered scenes (i.e. animation). Rendering[edit] Main article: 3D rendering Although 3D modeling and CAD software may perform 3D rendering as well (e.g. Autodesk 3ds Max or Blender), exclusive 3D rendering software also exists. Computer-aided design[edit] Main article: Computer-aided design Computer aided design software may employ the same fundamental 3D modeling techniques that 3D modeling software use but their goal differs. They are used in computer-aided engineering, computer-aided manufacturing, Finite element analysis, product lifecycle management, 3D printing and Computer-aided architectural design. Complementary tools[edit] After producing video, studios then edit or composite the video using programs such as Adobe Premiere Pro or Final Cut Pro at the low end, or Autodesk Combustion, Digital Fusion, Shake at the high-end. Match moving software is commonly used to match live video with computer-generated video, keeping the two in sync as the camera moves. Use of real-time computer graphics engines to create a cinematic production is called machinima. See also[edit] Book: 3D Rendering Software Comparison of 3D computer graphics software List of 3D computer graphics software List of 3D modeling software List of 3D rendering software Fields of use 3D data acquisition and object reconstruction 3D reconstruction 3D reconstruction from multiple images Game development tool Game engine Level editor Render farm References[edit] External links[edit] 3D Tools table from the CGSociety wiki Comparison of 10 most popular modeling software from TideArt v t e 3D computer graphics software Open-source Art of Illusion AutoQ3D Community Blender K-3D KPovModeler MakeHuman MeshLab OpenFX Point Cloud Library POV-Ray Seamless3d TopMod Wings 3D Closed-source 3D-Coat 3ds Max AC3D Bryce DAZ Studio Carrara Cinema 4D Clara.io Cyber Studio CAD-3D Electric Image E-on Vue Houdini LightWave 3D MASSIVE Golaem Crowd Maya Messiah Moment of Inspiration Modo Mudbox Poser RaySupreme Remo 3D Rhinoceros Sculptris Shade 3D Shark 3D SketchUp Softimage Strata 3D Swift 3D Terragen VistaPro ZBrush Defunct Dynamation Power Animator Softimage 3D trueSpace Comparison Category List 3D modeling 3D rendering Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=3D_computer_graphics_software&oldid=614228432" Categories: Computing templates 3D computer graphics 3D graphics software Hidden categories: Exclude in print