From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. This article is written like a personal reflection or opinion essay that states the Wikipedia editor's particular feelings about a topic, rather than the opinions of experts. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (December 2013) This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2012) See also: Experience design Software development process Core activities Requirements Design Construction Testing Debugging Deployment Maintenance Methodologies Waterfall Prototype model Incremental Iterative V-Model Spiral Scrum Cleanroom RAD DSDM UP XP Agile Lean Dual Vee Model TDD BDD FDD DDD MDD Supporting disciplines Configuration management Documentation Software Quality assurance (SQA) Project management User experience Tools Compiler Debugger Profiler GUI designer Modeling IDE Build automation v t e User experience design (UXD or UED) is the process of enhancing user satisfaction by improving the usability, ease of use, and pleasure provided in the interaction between the user and the product.[1] User experience design encompasses traditional human-computer interaction (HCI) design, and extends it by addressing all aspects of a product or service as perceived by users.[2] User experience is any aspect of a person's interaction with a given IT system, including the interface, graphics, industrial design, physical interaction, and the manual.[3] Contents 1 History 2 Elements of user experience design 2.1 Visual design 2.2 Information architecture 2.2.1 Information 2.2.2 Structuring, organization, and labeling 2.2.3 Finding and managing 2.3 Interaction design 2.4 Usability 2.4.1 Accessibility 2.5 Human-computer interaction 3 Design 4 Designers 5 Benefits 6 Criticism 7 See also 8 References 9 Further reading History[edit] The field of user experience design has roots in human factors and ergonomics, a field that, since the late 1940s, has focused on the interaction between human users, machines, and the contextual environments to design systems that address the user's experience.[4] With the proliferation of workplace computers in the early 1990s, user experience became an important concern for designers. It was Donald Norman, a user experience architect, who coined and brought the term user experience to wider knowledge.[5] The term also has a more recent connection to user-centered design, human-computer interaction, and also incorporates elements from similar user-centered design fields. Elements of user experience design[edit] User experience design includes elements of interaction design, information architecture, user research, and other disciplines, and is concerned with all facets of the overall experience delivered to users. Following is a short analysis of its constituent parts. Visual design[edit] Visual design, also commonly known as graphic design, communication design, or visual communication, represents the aesthetics or look-and-feel of the front end of any user interface. Graphic treatment of interface elements is often perceived as the visual design. The purpose of visual design is to use visual elements like colors, images, and symbols to convey a message to its audience. Fundamentals of Gestalt psychology and visual perception give a cognitive perspective on how to create effective visual communication.[6] Information architecture[edit] Information architecture is the art and science of structuring and organizing the information in products and services, supporting usability and findability. More basic concepts that are attached with information architecture are described below. Information[edit] In the context of information architecture, information is separate from both knowledge and data, and lies nebulously between them. It is information about objects. The objects can range from websites, to software applications, to images et al. It is also concerned with metadata: terms used to describe and represent content objects such as documents, people, process, and organizations. Structuring, organization, and labeling[edit] Structuring is reducing information to its basic building units and then relating them to each other. Organization involves grouping these units in a distinctive and meaningful manner. Labeling means using appropriate wording to support easy navigation and findability. Finding and managing[edit] Findability is the most critical success factor for information architecture. If users are not able to find required information without browsing, searching or asking, then the findability of the information architecture fails. Navigation needs to be clearly conveyed to ease finding of the contents. Interaction design[edit] There are many key factors to understanding interaction design and how it can enable a pleasurable end user experience. It is well recognized [clarification needed] that building great user experience requires interaction design to play a pivotal role in helping define what works best for the users. High demand for improved user experiences and strong focus on the end-users have made Interaction Designers critical in conceptualizing design that matches user expectations and standards of latest UI patterns and components. While working, Interaction Designers take several things in consideration. A few of them are:[7] Create the layout of the interface Define Interaction patterns best suited in the context Incorporate user needs collected during User Research, into the designs Features and Information that are important to the user Interface behavior like drag-drop, selections, mouse over actions, and so on Effectively communicate strengths of the system Make the interface intuitive by building affordances Maintain consistency throughout the system In the last few years, the role of interaction designer has shifted from being just focused on specifying UI components and communicating them to the engineers to a situation now where designers have more freedom to design contextual interfaces which are based on helping meet the user needs.[8] Therefore, User Experience Design evolved into a multidisciplinary design branch that involves multiple technical aspects from motion graphics design and animation to programming. Usability[edit] Usability is the extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified goals with effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified context of use.[9] Usability is attached with all tools used by humans and is extended to both digital and non-digital devices. Thus it is a subset of user experience but not wholly contained. The section of usability that intersects with user experience design is related to human’s ability to use a system or application. Good usability is essential to a positive user experience but does not alone guarantee it. Accessibility[edit] Accessibility of a system describes its ease of reach, use and understanding. In terms of user experience design it can also be related to the overall comprehensibility of the information and features. It contributes to shorten the learning curve attached with the system. Accessibility in many contexts can be related to the ease of use for people with disabilities and comes under Usability. Human-computer interaction[edit] Human-computer interaction is concerned with the design, evaluation and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use and with the study of major phenomena surrounding them.[10] Human-Computer Interaction is the main contributor to user experience design because of its emphasis on human performance rather than mere usability. It provides key research findings which inform the improvement of systems for the people. HCI extends its study towards more integrated interactions, such as tangible interactions, which is generally not covered in the practice of user experience. User experience cannot be manufactured or designed; it has to be incorporated in the design. Understanding the user's emotional quotient plays a key role while designing User Experience. The first step while designing the user experience is determining the reason a visitor will be visiting the website or use the application in question. Then the user experience can be designed accordingly. Design[edit] User experience design incorporates most or all of the above disciplines to positively impact the overall experience a person has with a particular interactive system, and its provider. User experience design most frequently defines a sequence of interactions between a user (individual person) and a system, virtual or physical, designed to meet or support user needs and goals, primarily, while also satisfying systems requirements and organizational objectives. Typical outputs include: Site Audit (usability study of existing assets) Flows and Navigation Maps User stories or Scenarios User segmentations and Persona (Fictitious users to act out the scenarios) Site Maps and Content Inventory Wireframes (screen blueprints or storyboards) Prototypes (For interactive or in-the-mind simulation) Written specifications (describing the behavior or design) Graphic mockups (Precise visual of the expected end result) Designers[edit] As with the fields mentioned above, user experience design is a highly multi-disciplinary field, incorporating aspects of psychology, anthropology, architecture, sociology, computer science, graphic design, industrial design and cognitive science. Depending on the purpose of the product, UX may also involve content design disciplines such as communication design, instructional design, or game design. The subject matter of the content may also warrant collaboration with a subject-matter expert (SME) on planning the UX from various backgrounds in business, government, or private groups. More recently, content strategy has come to represent a sub-field of UX. Benefits[edit] User experience design is integrated into software development and other forms of application development to inform feature requirements and interaction plans based upon the user's goals. Every new software introduced must keep pace with the rapid technological advancements. The benefits associated with integration of these design principles include: Avoiding unnecessary product features Simplifying design documentation and customer-centric technical publications Improving the usability of the system and therefore its acceptance by customers Expediting design and development through detailed and properly conceived guidelines Incorporating business and marketing goals while protecting the user's freedom of choice Criticism[edit] The discipline of user experience design, though still in its infancy and without a universally recognized definition, remains subject to criticism. Critics of user experience design argue that: User Experience Design is a buzzword for an existing best practice, therefore bringing no additional value A user experience cannot be fully "designed", therefore questioning the validity of the entire practice A user experience cannot be fully measured, therefore questioning the ROI of the practice See also[edit] Design portal Action research Activity-centered design Chief experience officer (CXO) Component-Based Usability Testing Contextual inquiry Customer experience Design thinking Empathic design Human-centered computing Information architecture Interaction design Needs analysis Paper prototyping Participatory design Process-centered design Thanatosensitivity Transgenerational design Ubiquitous computing Usability Usability engineering Usability testing User-design User experience evaluation User interface design World Usability Day References[edit] ^ Kujala, Sari; Roto, Virpi; Väänänen-Vainio-Mattila, Kaisa; Karapanos, Evangelos; Sinneläa, Arto (2011). "UX Curve: A method for evaluating long-term user experience". Interacting With Computers 23 (5): 473–483. doi:10.1016/j.intcom.2011.06.005.  |accessdate= requires |url= (help) ^ "What is user experience design?". IBM.  ^ Peter Merholz (2007). "Peter in Conversation with Don Norman About UX & Innovation". Adaptive Path.  ^ Human Factors and Ergonomics Society. HFES History. ^ uxdesign, "UX Design Defined", 16/08/2010 ^ Visual Design, [1], The gestalt of visual design. ^ Steve Psomas (2007). "The Five Competencies of User Experience Design". UX Matters.  ^ Jonas Lowgren. "Interaction Design". Interaction-Design.org.  ^ International standards for HCI and usability, [2], ISO 9241-11: Guidance on Usability (1998) ^ Definition of HCI, [3], CHAPTER 2: Human-Computer Interaction,ACM SIGCHI Curricula for Human-Computer Interaction Further reading[edit] Norman, Donald. The Design of Everyday Things. ISBN 9780465067107.  edit Cooper, Alan. The Inmates Are Running the Asylum: Why High-Tech Products Drive Us Crazy and How to Restore the Sanity. ISBN 9780672316494.  edit Buxton, Bill. Sketching User Experiences: Getting the Design Right and the Right Design. ISBN 9780123740373.  edit Cooper, Alan. About Face 3: The Essentials of Interaction Design. ISBN 9780470084113.  edit Tidwell, Jenifer. Designing Interfaces. ISBN 9781449379704.  edit Moser, Christian. User Experience Design: Mit erlebniszentrierter Softwareentwicklung zu Produkten, die begeistern. ISBN 9783642133626.  edit Moggridge, Bill. Designing Interactions. ISBN 9780262134743.  edit v t e Design Outline Portal Designer   Disciplines Communication design Advertising Book design Corporate design Environmental graphic design Exhibit design Graphic design Illustration Information design Instructional design News design Photography Retail design Signage / Traffic sign design Sustainable graphic design Typography Video design Visual merchandising Environmental design Architecture Architectural lighting design Building design Ecological design Environmental impact design Garden design Interior architecture Interior design Keyline design Landscape architecture Landscape design Passive solar building design Sustainable landscape architecture Urban design Industrial design Automotive design Furniture design Packaging and labeling Product design Production design Sensory design Service design Interaction design Experience design Icon design Immersive design Information design Level design Motion graphic design Sonic interaction design User experience design User interface design Video game design Web design Other design areas Algorithm design Public art design Ceramic / glass design Database design Drug design Electrical system design Fashion design costume jewelry Floral design Job design Game design Game art design Integrated circuit design Nuclear weapon design Nucleic acid design Organization design Process design Protein design Scenic design Social design Software design Sound design Systems design Textile design   Approaches Activity-centered By committee By contract C-K theory Closure Co-design Computer-aided Configuration Contextual Cradle-to-cradle Creative problem-solving Creativity techniques Critical Design–bid–build Design–build architect-led Ecodesign Empathic Engineering design process Error-tolerant Fault-tolerant For assembly For manufacturability For Six Sigma For testing For X Functional KISS principle Metadesign Mind mapping Modular Open Participatory Platform-based Rational Regenerative Reliability engineering Safe-life Sustainable Theory of constraints Top-down and bottom-up Transformation Transgenerational TRIZ Universal Usage-centered Use-centered User-centered User innovation Design ... controls leadership management methods pattern research science strategy thinking tool   Tools Intellectual property Organizations Awards Tools Blueprint Comprehensive layout Computer Flowchart Mockup Product design specification Prototype Sketch Storyboard Technical drawing Website wireframe Intellectual property Community design Design around Design patent Geschmacksmuster Industrial design rights European Union Organizations AIGA Chartered Society of Designers Design and Industries Association Design Council International Forum Design The Design Society Awards European Design Award German Design Award Good Design Awards (Chicago) Good Design Awards (Japan) Graphex IF product design award James Dyson Award Prince Philip Designers Prize   Related topics Aesthetics Applied arts Concept art Creative industries Cultural icon Engineering Enterprise architecture Futures studies Intelligent design New product development Philosophy of design Process simulation Slow design STEAM fields Visualization Wicked problem Design ... brief director eduction elements and principles engineer firm history knowledge language life load museum paradigm rationale review specification studio technology Commons Wikibooks Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wiktionary Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_experience_design&oldid=637270624" Categories: Human–computer interaction User interfaces Design Web design Software development process Hidden categories: Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL Wikipedia articles needing style editing from December 2013 All articles needing style editing Articles needing additional references from March 2012 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2013