Adventures of Tia | Thilina's StuffAdventures of Tia | Thilina's Stuff Thilina's Stuff Sidebar Classic Flipcard Magazine Mosaic Sidebar Snapshot Timeslide A Body Gesture Controlled Virtual Tour 1 Adaptive Gesture Recognition Framework for Mobile Applications Adventures of Tia Luminary - Gamification Bathroom Planning Application Flight Simulation How to make a Realistic Water Simulation? EBook Keyword index program in java-Data Structures and Algorithms System Abstraction and Object Identification Mar 21 Adventures of Tia I involved in 2 major project in this month. first one is a Cross platform Game "Tia's Adventures". this game is not for any client. this is for our company and therefore I am involved in complete end to end solution from concept to implementation and deploying. This is planned to release for Windows phone, iOS, Android, Xbox One and Facebook. I work as the Tech-lead of the project. So, it would be a tough challenge for me to implementing the game with required quality while keeping the consistency between multiple platforms. Currently I am developing the game for Android because it is the most resource limited platform from target platforms and if it works on Android, it would not be a problem to run on other platforms. The major challenge for in this project was, making and random infinite terrain which is capable to run on mobile platform. Posted 21st March by thilina premasiri Labels: games 0 Add a comment Add comment No more comments +1 Thilina's Stuff +1 Thilina's Stuff Followers Followers Blog Archive Blog Archive 20147 September2 A Body Gesture Controlled Virtual Tour Adaptive Gesture Recognition Framework for Mobile ... March5 20122 April2 About Me About Me thilina premasiri I am a computer Science and Engineering Student in University of Moratuwa. I am from a background with a zero computer literacy. Now I am ready to graduate with an Engineering  degree Specialized in Computer Science. I consider this as my greatest achievement.   Loading Dynamic Views template. Powered by Blogger.