Luminary - Gamification | Thilina's StuffLuminary - Gamification | Thilina's Stuff Thilina's Stuff Sidebar Classic Flipcard Magazine Mosaic Sidebar Snapshot Timeslide A Body Gesture Controlled Virtual Tour 1 Adaptive Gesture Recognition Framework for Mobile Applications Adventures of Tia Luminary - Gamification Bathroom Planning Application Flight Simulation How to make a Realistic Water Simulation? EBook Keyword index program in java-Data Structures and Algorithms System Abstraction and Object Identification Mar 21 Luminary - Gamification This article is based on a project I involved in during my internship period at Arimac 360° Digital Interactive Studio (All rights reserved). MAS holdings is one of the largest company in apparel industry of Sri Lanka. MAS holdings have established factories over 10 countries and provides employment to about 60,000 people. The goal of this project was enhancing the productivity of the employees and familiarizing themselves with the workflow of the company. To meet this requirement, we implemented a multiplayer game based on the concept of Gamification. MAS Gamification - Lumnary MAS holdings is one of the largest company in apparel industry of Sri Lanka. MAS holdings have established factories over 10 countries and provides employment to about 60,000 people. The goal of this project was enhancing the productivity of the meet this requirement, we implemented a multiplayer game based on the concept employees and familiarizing themselves with the workflow of the company. To meet this requirement, we implemented a multiplayer game based on the concept of Gamification. Gamification Gamification is the use of game thinking and game mechanics in non game contexts. This can be applied in many fields such as education, health and physical activities, business, and many more. Gamification techniques are based on people’s natural desires for competition, status, self expression, achievement... etc.  Gamification techniques leverage these desires in order to achieve the required goal. For example, kids don’t like to learn alphabets by just reading books. Instead of a book, we can give them a game which involves alphabet and in order to win the game, they need to learn alphabet and inside the game we can provide facilities to learn alphabet. Humans naturally like to win. So, for the sake of winning, they will try to learn. In this way, kids will learn more accurately. This is only one example. We can apply the same theories to achieve another objective in a different field. We applied the same theory in MAS project. We designed a game with a story which consists of 20 mini games, a pop up quiz system and a rating system. The rating system provides the competition between players (everybody wants to be at top of the leaderboard). The story and level system reflects the operational workflow of MAS. Also we included things they need to understand and learn about the company. The pop up quizzes are used to ensure that players have acquired necessary knowledge. Also, it serves as a feedback system. Administrators can analyze and get an idea about the improvement of the players using the answers provided by them. Gamification Technologies used    We decided to implement this as a web application because in that way, users do not have to download and install the game, because it can be a reason to not to play the game. Also, by releasing the game as a web based application, game resides in the server. Then wen can add modifications to the game later easily. Otherwise we will have to release patches time to time. Figure 2-21: Technologies used We decided to use unity3D to develop the game because it supports to develop for web platform and easy to develop. For the database of the system, by considering performance issues and ease of database management, we decided to use a NoSQL database. We selected MongoDB from several available database technologies. The advantage of using MongoDB was we could have records with different structures in same table. Therefore, we could directly push the json object sent from game to server as a record. The following diagram represents the overview of the system. MAS game overview Mini games We needed 20 mini games for this project. But we didn’t have enough time to develop new games. So, we took games we developed time to time and from various other sources. Then we modified them according to the theme and goal of the project. Then, we had a problem. As we have adopted games from various sources, scoring systems were different from game to game. If we use the existing scoring systems, the leaderboard would be meaningless. Therefore, I designed a new common scoring system in each mini game. The equation of score is, Score = k* (old Score/time elapsed) Character Customization Next challenging thing in this project was, implementing a character customization system. In the game, each player has an avatar and at any time player can customize the avatar. Customizations made to the avatar should be saved and maintained along with other profile information. Implementing a 3D customizable character takes a lot of time and effort. But, with the limited time we had, it was not possible to implement 3D customizable character. Therefore, we decided to implement this functionality on a 2D character. The illustration department assisted us by providing illustrations of characters. Also we asked them to provide images of the customizable body parts separately with 5 variations. Then we had 3 characters, which can customize hair, eyes, mouth, ears and outfit. Altogether they provided 3*55 combinations. Then we numbered the parts and stored in the database the numbers of selected body parts. In that way, we could save the customized character. Character customization Posted 21st March by thilina premasiri Labels: games gamification 0 Add a comment +1 Thilina's Stuff +1 Thilina's Stuff Blog Archive Blog Archive 20147 September2 A Body Gesture Controlled Virtual Tour Adaptive Gesture Recognition Framework for Mobile ... March5 20122 April2 About Me About Me thilina premasiri I am a computer Science and Engineering Student in University of Moratuwa. I am from a background with a zero computer literacy. Now I am ready to graduate with an Engineering  degree Specialized in Computer Science. I consider this as my greatest achievement.   Loading Dynamic Views template. Powered by Blogger.