From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (February 2013) This article's use of external links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or guidelines. Please improve this article by removing excessive or inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate into footnote references. (February 2013) Experimental software engineering is a sub-domain of software engineering focusing on experiments on software systems (software products, processes, and resources).[citation needed] It is interested in devising experiments on software, in collecting data from these experiments, and in devising laws and theories from this data. Proponents of experimental software engineering advocate that experimentation is an important method in contributing to accumulation of knowledge in software engineering. Empirical software engineering is a related concept, sometimes used synonymously with experimental software engineering. Empirical software engineering is a field of research that emphasizes the use of empirical studies of all kinds to accumulate knowledge. Methods used include experiments, variety of case studies, surveys, and statistical analyses. Rationale[edit] The scientific method suggests a cycle of observations, laws, and theories to advance science. Experimental software engineering applies this method to software engineering. Achievements[edit] This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (June 2008) Research labs[edit] There are a number of laboratories at universities, research institutes, and in industry that specialise in empirical and experimental software engineering. These include: Fraunhofer Institute for Experimental Software Engineering (IESE) Fraunhofer Center for Experimental Software Engineering (CESE) Sheffield Software Engineering Observatory Simula Research Laboratory COPPE/UFRJ Experimental Software Engineering Group University of Oslo International Software Engineering Research Network (ISERN)[edit] International Software Engineering Research Network (ISERN) is a global community of research groups who are active in experimental software engineering. Its purpose is to advance the practice of and foster university and industry collaborations within experimental software engineering. ISERN holds annual meetings in conjunction with the International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement (ESEM) conference. Notes[edit] References[edit] Victor Basili, Richard W. Selby, David H. Hutchens, "Experimentation in Software Engineering", IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. SE-12, No.7, July 1986 Barry Boehm, Hans Dieter Rombach, and Marvin V. Zelkowitz (eds.), Foundations of Empirical Software Engineering — The Legacy of Victor R. Basili, Springer-Verlag, 2005, ISBN 3-540-24547-2. H. Dieter Rombach, Victor R. Basili and Richard W. Selby (eds.), [Experimental Software Engineering Issues: Critical Assessment and Future Directions], Springer-Verlag, 1993, ISBN 3-540-57092-6. Basili, V.; Rombach, D.; Schneider, K.; Kitchenham, B.; Pfahl, D.; Selby, R. (Eds.),Empirical Software Engineering Issues. Critical Assessment and Future Directions, Springer-Verlag, 2007, ISBN 978-3-540-71300-5. This computer science article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Experimental_software_engineering&oldid=625222357" Categories: Software engineering Science experiments Computer science stubs Hidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from February 2013 All articles lacking in-text citations Wikipedia external links cleanup from February 2013 Wikipedia spam cleanup from February 2013 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from February 2013 Articles to be expanded from June 2008 All articles to be expanded Articles with empty sections from June 2008 All articles with empty sections All stub articles WikiProject Computer science stubs