Digital image processing
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about mathematical processing of digital images. For artistic processing of images, see Image editing.

Age progression of Whitey Bulger, a notorious mobster. The image was created as an attempt to aid in his capture
Digital image processing is the use of computer algorithms to perform image processing on digital images. As a subcategory or field of digital signal processing, digital image processing has many advantages over analog image processing. It allows a much wider range of algorithms to be applied to the input data and can avoid problems such as the build-up of noise and signal distortion during processing. Since images are defined over two dimensions (perhaps more) digital image processing may be modeled in the form of multidimensional systems.

Contents  [hide]
1 History
2 Tasks
3 Applications
3.1 Digital camera images
3.2 Film
3.3 Intelligent transportation systems
4 See also
5 References
6 Further reading
7 External links
History[edit]

Age progression of missing person Aundria Bowman
Many of the techniques of digital image processing, or digital picture processing as it often was called, were developed in the 1960s at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Bell Laboratories, University of Maryland, and a few other research facilities, with application to satellite imagery, wire-photo standards conversion, medical imaging, videophone, character recognition, and photograph enhancement.[1] The cost of processing was fairly high, however, with the computing equipment of that era. That changed in the 1970s, when digital image processing proliferated as cheaper computers and dedicated hardware became available. Images then could be processed in real time, for some dedicated problems such as television standards conversion. As general-purpose computers became faster, they started to take over the role of dedicated hardware for all but the most specialized and computer-intensive operations.

With the fast computers and signal processors available in the 2000s, digital image processing has become the most common form of image processing and generally, is used because it is not only the most versatile method, but also the cheapest.

Digital image processing technology for medical applications was inducted into the Space Foundation Space Technology Hall of Fame in 1994.[2]

In 2002 Raanan Fattal introduced Gradient domain image processing, a new way to process images in which the differences between pixels are manipulated rather than the pixel values themselves.[3]

Tasks[edit]
Digital image processing allows the use of much more complex algorithms, and hence, can offer both more sophisticated performance at simple tasks, and the implementation of methods which would be impossible by analog means.

In particular, digital image processing is the only practical technology for:

Classification
Feature extraction
Pattern recognition
Projection
Multi-scale signal analysis
Some techniques which are used in digital image processing include:

Pixelation
Linear filtering
Principal components analysis
Independent component analysis
Hidden Markov models
Anisotropic diffusion
Partial differential equations
Self-organizing maps
Neural networks
Wavelets
Applications[edit]
Further information: Digital imaging
Digital camera images[edit]
Digital cameras generally include specialized digital image processing hardware -- either dedicated chips or added circuitry on other chips -- to convert the raw data from their image sensor into a color-corrected image in a standard image file format.[4] Images from digital cameras can be further processed to improve their quality or to create desired special effects. This additional processing is typically executed by special software programs that can manipulate the images in a variety of ways.

Film[edit]
Westworld (1973) was the first feature film to use digital image processing to pixellate photography to simulate an android's point of view.[5]

Intelligent transportation systems[edit]
Digital image processing has a wide applications in intelligent transportation systems, such as automatic number plate recognition and traffic sign recognition.

See also[edit]
Computer graphics
Computer vision
Digitizing
GPGPU
Homomorphic filtering
Standard PhraseExtractor.nlp_resources.test image
Superresolution
Multidimensional systems
IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Society
CVIPtools


References[edit]

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2009)
Jump up ^ Azriel Rosenfeld, Picture Processing by Computer, New York: Academic Press, 1969
Jump up ^ "Space Technology Hall of Fame:Inducted Technologies/1994". Space Foundation. 1994. Retrieved 7 January 2010.
Jump up ^ Bhat, Pravin, et al. "Gradientshop: A gradient-domain optimization framework for image and video filtering." ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 29.2 (2010): 10.
Jump up ^ http://www.ti.com/lit/wp/spry105/spry105.pdf
Jump up ^ A Brief, Early History of Computer Graphics in Film, Larry Yaeger, 16 August 2002 (last update), retrieved 24 March 2010
Further reading[edit]
Solomon, C.J., Breckon, T.P. (2010). Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing: A Practical Approach with Examples in Matlab. Wiley-Blackwell. doi:10.1002/9780470689776. ISBN 0470844736.
Wilhelm Burger and Mark J. Burge (2007). Digital Image Processing: An Algorithmic Approach Using Java. Springer. ISBN 978-1-84628-379-6.
R. Fisher, K Dawson-Howe, A. Fitzgibbon, C. Robertson, E. Trucco (2005). Dictionary of Computer Vision and Image Processing. John Wiley. ISBN 978-0-470-01526-1.
Rafael C. Gonzalez, Richard E. Woods and Steven L. Eddins (2004). Digital Image Processing using MATLAB. Pearson Education. ISBN 978-81-7758-898-9.
Tim Morris (2004). Computer Vision and Image Processing. Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-333-99451-1.
Bernd Jähne (2002). Digital Image Processing. Springer. ISBN 978-3-540-67754-3.
Milan Sonka, Vaclav Hlavac and Roger Boyle (1999). Image Processing, Analysis, and Machine Vision. PWS Publishing. ISBN 978-0-534-95393-5.
External links[edit]
Lectures on Image Processing, by Alan Peters. Vanderbilt University. Updated 11 March 2013.
IPRG Open group related to image processing research resources
Processing digital images with computer algorithms
IPOL Open research journal on image processing with software and web demos.
[hide] v t e
Digital signal processing
Theory
Detection theory Discrete signal Estimation theory Nyquist–Shannon sampling theorem
Sub-fields
Audio signal processing Digital image processing Speech processing Statistical signal processing
Techniques
Advanced Z-transform Bilinear transform Discrete Fourier transform (DFT) Discrete-time Fourier transform (DTFT) Impulse invariance Matched Z-transform method Z-transform
Sampling
Aliasing Anti-aliasing filter Downsampling Nyquist rate / frequency Oversampling Quantization Sampling rate Undersampling Upsampling





Refer Digital Image Processing by Alan Peters

Categories: Computer visionImage processing