From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2009) This article is written like a personal reflection or opinion essay that states the Wikipedia editor's particular feelings about a topic, rather than the opinions of experts. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (March 2009) This article is an orphan, as no other articles link to it. Please introduce links to this page from related articles; try the Find link tool for suggestions. (February 2009) This article possibly contains previously unpublished synthesis of published material that conveys ideas not attributable to the original sources. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. (March 2009) Software entrepreneurship has a different set of developing strategies than other business start-ups. The development of software, a digital “soft” good, involves different business models, product strategy, people management, and development plan compared to the traditional manufacturing and service industries. For example in the software business, making one or ten million copies of a product cost about the same. Furthermore, the productivity difference between a good and bad employee is ten to twentyfold. As well, software projects tolerate 80 percent lateness and ongoing design changes on a regular basis.[1] Software entrepreneurship involve infinitely broad range of businesses; from helping people plan daily events to controlling a space shuttle. There are mainly three kinds of software businesses: products, services and content business such as Wikipedia. Contents 1 Products Versus Services 2 Funding 2.1 Bank Financing 2.2 Government Aid 2.3 Venture Capital 3 References 4 See also Products Versus Services[edit] The first thing software entrepreneurs should understand is the difference and the interrelationship between products and services business. The software product business is about selling licensed packages to customers. These products help solve a user pain and have potential for growth and profits. One advantage of starting up in this direction is the ability to attract stock market investors and venture capitalists for funding. This business also enjoys enormous economies of scale in selling multiple copies of the same software. The downside of creating products is that software sales are subject to fluctuations. Sales will drop drastically in economic recessions. The service business involves creating applications for clients that tailor to their business needs. This includes the maintenance of software products they have purchased before. One advantage of service business is that long-term customer contracts can allow the company to survive rough economic times. The downside is that the business needs to attract enough clients to keep developers and consultants busy. Software companies can also develop a hybrid solution involving a mixture of products and services.[2] In this case, solutions are sold to clients that require extensive customization. Approximately 20 to 50 percent of coding is required for each individual client. Customers purchasing this type of IT solution usually do not switch vendors for long periods of time.[3] Funding[edit] Bank Financing[edit] This is practically an impossible method as the bank requires security and personal loan guarantees. Government Aid[edit] Governments usually give out non-repayable grants to encourage start-ups. There are also investment tax credits that can be claimed. One thing to be careful about government aid is the lengthy procedures that may be required before obtaining the funds. Venture Capital[edit] Venture capital is risk capital invested into a start-up company at its early stages. Venture capitalists usually invest in start-ups that already have a relatively developed software product and some early sales. They look for products that have a large potential in a growing market with a competitive edge.[4] Venture capital help offers a large sum of money and often assistance in managing the company. People with software start-up experiences are available for mentoring. There are also help available in assisting the process of going public. References[edit] ^ Cusumano, Michael A. The Business of Software. New York: Free Press, 2004 ^ Karl M. Popp (2011). Advances in software economics: A reader on business models and Partner Ecosystems in the software industry. Norderstedt, Germany: BOD. ISBN 978-3-8448-0405-8.  ^ Cusumano, Michael A. The Business of Software. New York: Free Press, 2004 ^ Kawasaki, Guy. The Art of the Start. England: Penguin Books Ltd, 2004 See also[edit] Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurs Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Software_entrepreneurship&oldid=526593421" Categories: Software industry Entrepreneurship Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2009 All articles needing additional references Wikipedia articles needing style editing from March 2009 All articles needing style editing Orphaned articles from February 2009 All orphaned articles Articles that may contain original research from March 2009