From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia This is the latest accepted revision, accepted on 8 December 2014. Jump to: navigation, search "Hardware engineering" redirects here. For engineering of other types of hardware, see Mechanical engineering. Computer components Computer engineering is a discipline that integrates several fields of electrical engineering and computer science required to develop computer hardware and software.[1] Computer engineers usually have training in electronic engineering (or electrical engineering), software design, and hardware-software integration instead of only software engineering or electronic engineering. Computer engineers are involved in many hardware and software aspects of computing, from the design of individual microprocessors, personal computers, and supercomputers, to circuit design. This field of engineering not only focuses on how computer systems themselves work, but also how they integrate into the larger picture.[2] Usual tasks involving computer engineers include writing software and firmware for embedded microcontrollers, designing VLSI chips, designing analog sensors, designing mixed signal circuit boards, and designing operating systems. Computer engineers are also suited for robotics research, which relies heavily on using digital systems to control and monitor electrical systems like motors, communications, and sensors. In many institutions, computer engineering students are allowed to choose areas of in-depth study in their junior and senior year, because the full breadth of knowledge used in the design and application of computers is beyond the scope of an undergraduate degree. Other institutions may require engineering students to complete one year of General Engineering before declaring computer engineering as their primary focus.[3][4][5] Contents 1 History 2 Work 2.1 Computer software engineering 2.2 Computer hardware engineering 3 Specialty areas 3.1 Coding, cryptography, and information protection 3.2 Communications and wireless networks 3.3 Compilers and operating systems 3.4 Computational science and engineering 3.5 Computer networks, mobile computing, and distributed systems 3.6 Computer systems: architecture, parallel processing, and dependability 3.7 Computer vision and robotics 3.8 Embedded systems 3.9 Integrated circuits, VLSI design, testing and CAD 3.10 Signal, image and speech processing 4 Education 5 Job outlook in the United States 5.1 Computer software engineering 5.2 Computer hardware engineering 6 Similar occupations and field 7 References History[edit] The first computer engineering degree program in the United States was established at Case Western Reserve University in 1972. As of October 2004[update], there were 170 ABET-accredited computer engineering programs in the US.[6] In Europe, accreditation of computer engineering schools is done by a variety of agencies part of the EQANIE network. Due to increasing job requirements for engineers who can concurrently design hardware, software, firmware, and manage all forms of computer systems used in industry, some tertiary institutions around the world offer a bachelor's degree generally called computer engineering. Both computer engineering and electronic engineering programs include analog and digital circuit design in their curriculum. As with most engineering disciplines, having a sound knowledge of mathematics and science is necessary for computer engineers. Work[edit] There are two major specialties in computer engineering: software and hardware. Computer software engineering[edit] Main article: Software engineering Computer software engineers develop, design, and test software. Some software engineers design, construct, and maintain computer programs for companies. Some set up networks such as "intranets" for companies. Others make or install new software or upgrade computer systems. Computer software engineers can also work in application design. This involves designing or coding new programs and applications to meet the needs of a business or individual. Computer software engineers can also work as freelancers and sell their software products/applications to an enterprise/individual.[7] Computer hardware engineering[edit] Most computer hardware engineers research, develop, design, and test various computer equipment. This can range from circuit boards and microprocessors to routers. Some update existing computer equipment to be more efficient and work with newer software. Most computer hardware engineers work in research laboratories and high-tech manufacturing firms. Some also work for the federal government. According to BLS, 95% of computer hardware engineers work in metropolitan areas. They generally work full-time. Approximately 25% of their work requires more than 40 hours a week. The median salary for employed qualified computer hardware engineers (2012) was $100,920 per year or $48.52 per hour. Computer hardware engineers held 83,300 jobs in 2012.[8] Specialty areas[edit] There are many specialty areas in the field of computer engineering. Coding, cryptography, and information protection[edit] Main article: Information security Computer engineers work in Coding, Cryptography, and Information Protection to develop new methods for protecting various information, such as digital images and music, fragmentation, copyright infringement and other forms of tampering. Examples include work on wireless communications, multi-antenna systems, optical transmission, and digital watermarking.[9] Communications and wireless networks[edit] Main articles: Communications networks and Wireless network Those focusing on communications and wireless networks, work advancements in telecommunications systems and networks (especially wireless networks), modulation and error-control coding, and information theory. High-speed network design, interference suppression and modulation, design and analysis of fault-tolerant system, and storage and transmission schemes are all a part of this specialty.[9] Compilers and operating systems[edit] Main articles: Compiler and Operating system This specialty focuses on compilers and operating systems design and development. Engineers in this field develop new operating system architecture, program analysis techniques, and new techniques to assure quality. Examples of work in this field includes post-link-time code transformation algorithm development and new operating system development.[9] Computational science and engineering[edit] Main article: Computational science and engineering Computational Science and Engineering is a relatively new discipline. According to the Sloan Career Cornerstone Center, individuals working in this area, "computational methods are applied to formulate and solve complex mathematical problems in engineering and the physical and the social sciences. Examples include aircraft design, the plasma processing of nanometer features on semiconductor wafers, VLSI circuit design, radar detection systems, ion transport through biological channels, and much more".[9] Computer networks, mobile computing, and distributed systems[edit] Main articles: Computer Network, Mobile computing and Distributed computing In this specialty, engineers build integrated environments for computing, communications, and information access. Examples include shared-channel wireless networks, adaptive resource management in various systems, and improving the quality of service in mobile and ATM environments. Some other examples include work on wireless network systems and fast Ethernet cluster wired systems.[9] Computer systems: architecture, parallel processing, and dependability[edit] Main articles: Computer Architecture, Parallel Processing and Dependability Engineers working in computer systems work on research projects that allow for reliable, secure, and high-performance computer systems. Projects such as designing processors for multi-threading and parallel processing are included in this field. Other examples of work in this field include development of new theories, algorithms, and other tools that add performance to computer systems.[9] Computer vision and robotics[edit] Main articles: Computer Vision and Robotics In this specialty, computer engineers focus on developing visual sensing technology to sense an environment, representation of an environment, and manipulation of the environment. The gathered three-dimensional information is then implemented to perform a variety of tasks. These include, improved human modeling, image communication, and human-computer interfaces, as well as devices such as special-purpose cameras with versatile vision sensors.[9] Embedded systems[edit] Examples of devices that use embedded systems. Main article: Embedded Systems Individuals working in this area design technology for enhancing the speed, reliability, and performance of systems. Embedded systems are found in many devices from a small FM radio to the space shuttle. According to the Sloan Cornerstone Career Center, on going developments in embedded systems include "automated vehicles and equipment to conduct search and rescue, automated transportation systems, and human-robot coordination to repair equipment in space."[9] Integrated circuits, VLSI design, testing and CAD[edit] Main articles: Integrated circuit and Very-large-scale integration This specialty of computer engineering requires adequate knowledge of electronics and electrical systems. Engineers working in this area work on enhancing the speed, reliability, and energy efficiency of next-generation very-large-scale integrated (VLSI) circuits and microsystems. An example of this specialty is work done on reducing the power consumption of VLSI algorithms and architecture.[9] Signal, image and speech processing[edit] Main articles: Signal processing, Image processing and Speech processing Computer engineers in this area develop improvements in human–computer interaction, including speech recognition and synthesis, medical and scientific imaging, or communications systems. Other work in this area includes computer vision development such as recognition of human facial features.[9] Education[edit] Most entry-level computer engineering jobs require at least a bachelor's degree in computer engineering. Sometimes a degree in electrical engineering is accepted, due to the similarity of the two fields. Because hardware engineers commonly work with computer software systems, a background in computer programming usually is needed. According to BLS, "a computer engineering major is similar to electrical engineering but with some computer science courses added to the curriculum".[8] Some large firms or specialized jobs require a master's degree. It is also important for computer engineers to keep up with rapid advances in technology. Therefore, many continue learning throughout their careers. Job outlook in the United States[edit] Computer software engineering[edit] According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), "computer applications software engineers and computer systems software engineers are projected to be among the faster than average growing occupations from 2012 to 2022".[7] BLS reports an expected growth of 22% for software developers from 2012 to 2022 [10](down from the 30% 2010 to 2020 estimate).[11] In addition, growing concerns over cyber security add up to put computer software engineering high above the average rate of increase for all fields. However, some of the work will be outsourced in foreign countries. Due to this, job growth will not be as fast as during the last decade[how?].[7] Computer hardware engineering[edit] According to the BLS, "employment of computer hardware engineers is expected to only increase 7% from 2012 to 2022 ("Slower than average" in their own words when compared to other occupations)[12] and is down from 9 percent in the BLS 2010 to 2020 estimate." Today, computer hardware is somehow equal to Electronic and Computer Engineering (ECE) and has divided to many subcategories, the most significant of them is Embedded system design.[8] Similar occupations and field[edit] Computer programming Electrical engineering Software development Systems analyst References[edit] ^ IEEE Computer Society; ACM (December 12, 2004). Computer Engineering 2004: Curriculum Guidelines for Undergraduate Degree Programs in Computer Engineering. p. iii. Retrieved December 17, 2012. Computer System engineering has traditionally been viewed as a combination of both electronic engineering (EE) and computer science (CS).  ^ Trinity College Dublin. "What is Computer System Engineering". Retrieved April 21, 2006. , "Computer engineers need not only to understand how computer systems themselves work, but also how they integrate into the larger picture. Consider the car. A modern car contains many separate computer systems for controlling such things as the engine timing, the brakes and the air bags. To be able to design and implement such a car, the computer engineer needs a broad theoretical understanding of all these various subsystems & how they interact. ^ "Changing Majors @ Clemson". Clemson University. Retrieved September 20, 2011.  ^ "Declaring a College of Engineering Major". University of Arkansas. Retrieved September 20, 2011.  ^ "Degree Requirements". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved September 20, 2011.  ^ IEEE Computer Society; ACM (December 12, 2004). Computer Engineering 2004: Curriculum Guidelines for Undergraduate Degree Programs in Computer Engineering. p. 7. Retrieved April 21, 2006. In the United States, the first computer engineering program accredited by ABET (formerly the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology) was at Case Western Reserve University in 1972. As of October 2004, ABET has accredited over 170 computer engineering or similarly named programs.  ^ a b c "Computer Software Engineer". Bureau of Labor Statistics. March 19, 2010. Archived from the original on July 26, 2013. Retrieved July 20, 2012.  ^ a b c "Computer Hardware Engineers". Bureau of Labor Statistics. January 8, 2014. Retrieved July 20, 2012.  ^ a b c d e f g h i j "Computer Engineering Overview". Sloan Career Cornerstone Center. Retrieved July 20, 2012.  ^ http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm Retrieved 10/01/2014 ^ "Software Developers". Bureau of Labor Statistics. January 8, 2014. Retrieved July 21, 2012.  ^ http://www.bls.gov/ooh/architecture-and-engineering/computer-hardware-engineers.htm Retrieved 10/01/2014 v t e Engineering Civil engineering Architectural Construction Earthquake Hydraulic Mining Structural Geotechnical Transportation Mechanical engineering Aerospace Acoustical Automotive Marine Mechatronics Optical Railway Electrical engineering Computer Electronics Electromechanics Power Photonics Telecommunications Radio Frequency Chemical engineering Biochemical Biological Molecular Nanotechnology Process Reaction Thermodynamics Transport Phenomena Interdisciplinarity Mathematics and Computing Engineering Biomedical Environmental Industrial Materials science Robotics Military Nuclear Systems List of engineering branches  · Category:Engineering  · Engineering portal v t e Technology Outline of technology Outline of applied science Fields Agriculture Agricultural engineering Aquaculture Fisheries science Food chemistry Food engineering Food microbiology Food technology GURT ICT Nutrition Biomedical Bioinformatics Biological engineering Biomechatronics Biomedical engineering Biotechnology Cheminformatics Genetic engineering Healthcare science Medical research Medical technology Nanomedicine Neuroscience Neurotechnology Pharmacology Reproductive technology Tissue engineering Buildings and Construction Acoustical engineering Architectural engineering Building services engineering Civil engineering Construction engineering Domestic technology Facade engineering Fire protection engineering Safety engineering Sanitary engineering Structural engineering Educational Educational software Digital technologies in education ICT in education Impact Multimedia learning Virtual campus Virtual education Energy Nuclear engineering Nuclear technology Petroleum engineering Soft energy technology Environmental Clean technology Clean coal technology Ecological design Ecological engineering Ecotechnology Environmental engineering Environmental engineering science Green building Green nanotechnology Landscape engineering Renewable energy Sustainable design Sustainable engineering Industrial Automation Business informatics Engineering management Enterprise engineering Financial engineering Industrial biotechnology Industrial engineering Metallurgy Mining engineering Productivity improving technologies Research and development Tribology IT and communications Artificial intelligence Broadcast engineering Computer engineering Computer science Information technology Music technology Ontology engineering RF engineering Software engineering Telecommunications engineering Visual technology Web engineering Military Army engineering maintenance Electronic warfare Military communications Military engineering Stealth technology Transport Aerospace engineering Automotive engineering Naval architecture Space technology Traffic engineering Transport engineering Other applied sciences Cryogenics Electro-optics Electronics Engineering geology Engineering physics Hydraulics Materials science Microfabrication Nanoengineering Other engineering fields Audio Biochemical Ceramic Chemical Polymer Control Electrical Electronic Entertainment Geotechnical Hydraulic Mechanical Mechatronics Optical Protein Quantum Robotics Animatronics Systems Components Infrastructure Invention Timeline Knowledge Machine Skill Craft Tool Gadget Scales Femtotechnology Picotechnology Nanotechnology Microtechnology Macro-engineering Megascale engineering History Prehistoric technology Neolithic Revolution Ancient technology Medieval technology Renaissance technology Industrial Revolution Second Jet Age Digital Revolution Information Age Theories and concepts Appropriate technology Critique of technology Diffusion of innovations Disruptive innovation Dual-use technology Ephemeralization Ethics of technology High tech Hype cycle Low-technology Mature technology Philosophy of technology Strategy of Technology Technicism Techno-progressivism Technocapitalism Technocentrism Technocracy Technocriticism Technoetic Technoethics Technogaianism Technological alliance Technological apartheid Technological change Technological convergence Technological determinism Technological escalation Technological evolution Technological fix Technological innovation system Technological momentum Technological nationalism Technological paradigm Technological rationality Technological revival Technological revolution Technological self-efficacy Technological singularity Singularitarianism Technological somnambulism Technological transitions Technological unemployment Technological utopianism Technology lifecycle Technology acceptance model Technology adoption lifecycle Technomancy Technorealism Technoromanticism Technoscience Transhumanism Other Emerging technologies List Fictional technology Technopaganism High-technology business districts Kardashev scale List of technologies Platform technology Science, technology and society Technology dynamics Science and technology by country STEM fields Pre-STEM women STEAM fields Technology alignment Technology assessment Technology brokering Technology companies Technology demonstration Technology education Technical universities and colleges Technology evangelist Technology fusion Technology governance Technology integration Technology journalism Technology management Technology policy Technology shock Technology strategy Technology and society Technology transfer Technophilia Technophobia Technoself Technosignature Technostress Terotechnology Book Category Commons Portal Wikiquotes v t e Academic degrees First-tier Associate degree Foundation degree Higher National Diploma Second-tier Bachelor's degree Honours Degree Graduate certificate (EU) Third-tier Master of Advanced Studies Diplom Engineer's degree Magister Master's degree Graduate certificate (US) Fourth-tier Doctorate Terminal degree Candidate of Sciences Fifth-tier Higher doctorate Habilitation Doktor nauk Tenure Other First professional degree Honorary degree Licentiate Professorial degree Specialist degree Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computer_engineering&oldid=637217768" Categories: Electrical engineering Electronic engineering Computer science Computer engineering Hidden categories: Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2004 All articles containing potentially dated statements Wikipedia articles needing clarification from November 2012