From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2012) Vuforia is an Augmented Reality Software Development Kit (SDK) for mobile devices that enables the creation of Augmented Reality applications.[1] It uses Computer Vision technology to recognize and track planar images (Image Targets) and simple 3D objects, such as boxes, in real-time. This image registration capability enables developers to position and orient virtual objects, such as 3D models and other media, in relation to real world images when these are viewed through the camera of a mobile device. The virtual object then tracks the position and orientation of the image in real-time so that the viewer’s perspective on the object corresponds with their perspective on the Image Target, so that it appears that the virtual object is a part of the real world scene. The Vuforia SDK supports a variety of 2D and 3D target types including ‘markerless’ Image Targets, 3D Multi-Target configurations, and a form of addressable Fiduciary Marker known as a Frame Marker. Additional features of the SDK include localized Occlusion Detection using ‘Virtual Buttons’, runtime image target selection, and the ability to create and reconfigure target sets programmatically at runtime.[2] Vuforia provides Application Programming Interfaces (API) in C++, Java, Objective-C, and the .Net languages through an extension to the Unity game engine.[3] In this way, the SDK supports both native development for iOS and Android while also enabling the development of AR applications in Unity that are easily portable to both platforms. AR applications developed using Vuforia are therefore compatible with a broad range of mobile devices including the iPhone ( 4/4S ), iPad, and Android phones and tablets running Android OS version 2.2 or greater and an ARMv6 or 7 processor with FPU (Floating Point Unit) processing capabilities. References[edit] ^ "Augmented Reality (Vuforia)". Qualcomm Developer Network.  ^ "Developing with Vuforia". Vuforia Developer.  ^ "Vuforia SDK Native - Android & iOS API Reference". Vuforia Developer.  This software article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. v t e Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vuforia_Augmented_Reality_SDK&oldid=578844236" Categories: Augmented reality applications Software development kits Software stubs Hidden categories: Articles needing additional references from June 2012 All articles needing additional references All stub articles